Project Name - Olympics Data mining


# OLYMPICS HISTORY
* According to historical records, the first ancient Olympic Games can be 
traced back to 776 BC. They were dedicated to the Olympian gods and were staged
on the ancient plains of Olympia. They continued for nearly 12 centuries, 
until Emperor Theodosius decreed in 393 A.D. that all such "pagan cults" be banned.

This is a historical dataset on the modern Olympic Games, 
including all the Games from Athens 1896 to Rio 2016.

This dataset provides an opportunity to ask questions about how the Olympics 
have evolved over time, including questions about the participation and 
performance of women, different nations, and different sports and events.

THE FILE athlete_events.csv CONTAINS 271116 ROWS AND 15 COLUMNS. EACH ROW 
CORRESPONDS TO AN INDIVIDUAL ATHLETE COMPETING IN AN INDIVIDUAL OLYMPIC EVENT 
(ATHLETE-EVENTS). THE COLUMNS ARE:

ID - Unique number for each athlete
Name - Athlete's name
Sex - M or F
Age - Integer
Height - In centimeters
Weight - In kilograms
Team - Team name
NOC - National Olympic Committee 3-letter code
Games - Year and season
Year - Integer
Season - Summer or Winter
City - Host city
Sport - Sport
Event - Event
Medal - Gold, Silver, Bronze, or NA


noc_regions.csv-
NOC (National Olympic Committee 3 letter code)
Country name 
Notes


Project Tasks-

A---> DATA ANALYSIS AND VISUALIZATION

Data is given for both summer and winter olympics combined. So perform
following tasks seperately for both unless mentioned to perform in combine 
form -

1. Fetch the participant who won the most medals with their sports and country
(Consider as whole no male and female distinguish needed)

2. Visualize Athelete participation count over years.

3. Visualize the Athelete Participation by gender over years.

4. Visualize the Gender Distribution in the games.

5. Visualize the number of countries participated in the games.

6.Visualize the highest number of participation nation wise.

7. Visualize the countries that Hosted the games for the highest number of times.

8. Visualize the cities that hosted the games for the highest number of times.

9. Visualize the average age, height and weight of the atheletes for various 
   sports categories. (3 seperate representation)
   
10. Visualize the total unique sports activities over years in Olympics.

11. Visualize the event ratio by gender.

12. Visualize the events by genders over years.

13. Fetch the discontinued sports in olympics 2016.

14. Revenue Categories - 

Category ---------->   Sports
A                      Acquatics, Atheletes, Gymnastics
B                      Cycling, Tennis
C                      Archery, Badminton, Boxing, Judo, Rowing, Shooting, Table Tennis, Weightlifting
D                      Canoeing, Equestrianism, Sailing, Fencing, Taekwondo, Triathlon, Wrestling
E                      Modern Pentathlon, Golf

    Visualize the sports ratio in each revenue category.

15. Visualize the medals won in each revenue category.

16. Fetch the medal tally for each sports categories

17. Visualize the above results.

18. Fetch the top 100 atheletes with the highest total medal first seperate for both seasons and then in combined form.

19. Fetch the countries with their total medals in combined of both seasons.

B-----> MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS

1. Apply Kmeans on the height and weight column of the given data and depict the information clusters provide.

C------> GUI APPLICATION

1. Create a functional GUI that disaplay the medal tally of the year and the season provided by the user.

Note----> season - winter and summer.

